---
# multilingual page pair id, this must pair with translations of this page. (This name must be unique)
lng_pair: id_Examples
title: 연구원에게 중요한 다섯가지 프로그램

# post specific
# if not specified, .name will be used from _data/owner/[language].yml
author: Mr. Green's Workshop
# multiple category is not supported
category: 
# multiple tag entries are possible
tags: [연구, Microsoft Excel, Matlab, Stata, Endnote, Zotero]
# thumbnail image for post
img: "https://source.unsplash.com/1600x900/?research,programs,important,five"
# disable comments on this page
#comments_disable: true

# publish date
date: 2023-02-14 09:47:06 +0900

# seo
# if not specified, date will be used.
#meta_modify_date: 2022-02-10 08:11:06 +0900
# check the meta_common_description in _data/owner/[language].yml
#meta_description: ""

# optional
# please use the "image_viewer_on" below to enable image viewer for individual pages or posts (_posts/ or [language]/_posts folders).
# image viewer can be enabled or disabled for all posts using the "image_viewer_posts: true" setting in _data/conf/main.yml.
#image_viewer_on: true
# please use the "image_lazy_loader_on" below to enable image lazy loader for individual pages or posts (_posts/ or [language]/_posts folders).
# image lazy loader can be enabled or disabled for all posts using the "image_lazy_loader_posts: true" setting in _data/conf/main.yml.
#image_lazy_loader_on: true
# exclude from on site search
#on_site_search_exclude: true
# exclude from search engines
#search_engine_exclude: true
# to disable this page, simply set published: false or delete this file
#published: false
---


# Five Programs Important to Researchers  
  
As a researcher, there are a variety of tools and programs available to make your job easier. From organization to data analysis, each of these five programs can save you time, energy, and frustration.  
  
## Microsoft Excel  
  
Microsoft Excel is the most well-known spreadsheet program and is an invaluable tool for researchers. Not only can it be used to organize data, but it also has some more advanced features such as data analysis, graphing, and macros. Excel is a great program for researchers looking to quickly and easily analyze their data.  
  
## MATLAB  
  
MATLAB is a computational software system designed specifically for engineers and scientists. It is a powerful tool for data analysis and visualization, and it also has features like machine learning, image processing and signal processing. MATLAB is a great program for researchers who need to crunch large amounts of data or analyze complex algorithms.  
  
## STATA  
  
STATA is a statistical software package that is commonly used for data analysis and data management. It is a great program for researchers who need to do complex statistical analysis or need to organize and manage large datasets. STATA also has features like graphics and data manipulation, making it an invaluable tool for any researcher.  
  
## EndNote  
  
EndNote is a reference manager which is commonly used by researchers. It is a great program for organizing and managing citations, as well as formatting bibliographies. EndNote makes it easier to keep track of references and citations, and it can also be used to share references and collaborate on projects.  
  
## Zotero  
  
Zotero is a free and open-source reference manager that is used mainly by researchers. It is a great program for organizing and managing references, as well as formatting bibliographies. Zotero also has features like web-clipping, annotation, and collaboration, making it an invaluable tool for any researcher.  
  
These five programs are essential tools for any researcher. Whether you need to organize data, crunch large amounts of data, or manage references and citations, these programs can make your job easier and more efficient.